# LarissaEvaldtOODPCA

## Justifications for the use of Singleton and BuilderPattern

The Singleton Pattern is used int the DataSource class, the one managing the database connection, because Singleton pattern restricts the instantiation of a class and ensures that only one instance of the class can exist in the java virtual machine. This is particularly good for systems that connect to a database because just one object to manage the database connection is enough, if the user initialises too many unnecessary connections it would make the performance slow down, due to this multiple instantiations and it could also refuse connections if there are too many at the same time. 
And I chose the Bill Pugh Singleton implementation because it avoids the instantiation until when the client calls the getInstance method, some other implementations create the instance even before the client application starts using it. Also it solves the problem where too many threads try to get the instance of the Singleton class simultaneously without requiring synchronisation, which reduces the performance due to the cost associated with the synchronised method.

The Builder Pattern was used in the Country class mainly because when we have too many arguments to pass in the constructor, it can be error prone and cause some problems, we can't guarantee the order of those arguments. Also we have a few optional attributes that we don't necessarily need to pass to the constructor because they have default values. The builder pattern solves this issue because instead of passing all of the attributes in the constructor, we can assign default values to them, and then we define setter methods for the case we want assign another value to them. And the setter methods can be called in any order. 
